quickstart created for airbyte + dbt (#97)
Teradata/quickstarts: modules/elt/pages/use-dbt-to-transform-the-external-data-loaded-through-airbyte-in-teradata-vantage.adoc

....

== Understanding Transformations
This dbt project performs two fold transformation. 

* First, it transforms the raw data which is in JSON format loaded in Teradata Vantage with Airbyte from Google Sheets into staging views (staging models) that are normalized. 
* Next, it transforms the normalized views into a dimensional model with customer and order data ready for analytics.

The following diagram shows the transformation steps in Teradata Vantage using dbt:
[ditaa]
----
    /--------------\   JSON Transformation  /------------------\
    | Raw JSON Data|----------------------->| Normalized Views |
    \--------------/                        \------------------/
                                                      |
                                                      | Dimensional Modeling
                                                      v
                                               /-------------\
                                               |  Dimension  |  
                                               |    and      |
                                               | Fact Tables |
                                               \-------------/     
----

> In the original link:https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop-dev[dbt Jaffle Shop tutorial, window="_blank"] we get the data from raw csv files in the `./data` into staging views in `./models/staging` using `dbt seed`. Here, in our example we transform the raw JSON data in Teradata Vantage into Normalized views in these staging models. `stg_customers` model creates the normalized view for `customers` from `_airbyte_raw_customers` table. Similarly `stg_orders` model creates for normalized view for `orders` from `_airbyte_raw_orders` and `stg_payments` model creates normalized view for `payments` from `_airbyte_raw_payments`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the original link:https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop-dev[dbt Jaffle Shop tutorial, window="_blank"] the project's data is loaded from csv files located in the `./data` folder through dbt's `seed` command. The `seed` command is used to load master data from tables, but this command is not designed to perform data loading. 
In this demo we are assuming a more typical setup in which a tool designed for data loading, Airbyte, was used to load data into the datawarehouse/lake.
Data loaded through Airbyte though is represented as raw JSON strings. From these raw data we are creating normalized views. We perform this task through the following staging models. 
The `stg_customers` model creates the normalized view for `customers` from `_airbyte_raw_customers` table. Similarly the `stg_orders` model creates the normalized view for `orders` from `_airbyte_raw_orders`,  and, finally the `stg_payments` model creates the normalized view for `payments` from `_airbyte_raw_payments`. 
```

> The given below is an example of JSON transformation in `stg_orders.sql` model: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below an example of transforming raw JSON data into a view through the `stg_orders.sql` model : 
```

[source, sql]
----
WITH flattened_json_data AS (
  SELECT
    _airbyte_data.JSONExtractValue('$.id') AS order_id,
    _airbyte_data.JSONExtractValue('$.user_id') AS customer_id,
    _airbyte_data.JSONExtractValue('$.order_date') AS order_date,
    _airbyte_data.JSONExtractValue('$.status') AS status
  FROM airbyte_jaffle_shop._airbyte_raw_orders
)

SELECT * FROM flattened_json_data
----

=== Dimensional Modeling
Dimension Modeling is a two step process: 

* First, dbt takes the normalized views in `stg_orders`, `stg_customers`, `stg_payments` and builds denormalized intermediate join tables `customer_orders`, `order_payments`, `customer_payments`. You will find the definitions of these tables in `./models/marts/core/intermediate`.  

> * In the second step, dbt creates `dim_customers` and `fct_orders` tables. These are the dimensional model tables that we want to expose to our BI tool. You will find the definitions of these tables in `./models/marts/core`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the second step, dbt creates `dim_customers` and `fct_orders` tables. These constitute the dimensional model tables that we want to expose to our BI tool. You will find the definitions of these tables in `./models/marts/core`.
```

The code for intermediate and final dimension models is already available in the original link:https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop-dev[dbt Jaffle Shop tutorial, window="_blank"].

==== Create Dimesional Models
Now we create the models using the command:

[source, bash]
----
dbt run
----
You will get the status of each model as given below:

image::{dir}/dbt_run.png[dbt run output, width=75%]

=== Test the data

> dbt applied multiple transformations to our data. To ensure that the data in the dimensional model is correct, dbt allows us to define and execute tests against the data. The tests are defined in `./models/marts/core/schema.yml` and `./models/staging/schema.yml`. The files describe each column in all relationships. Each column can have multiple tests configured under `tests` key. For example, we expect that `fct_orders.order_id` column will contain unique, non-null values. To validate that the data in the produced tables satisfies the test conditions run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt applied multiple transformations to our data. To ensure that the data in the dimensional model is correct, dbt allows us to define and execute tests against the data. The tests are defined in `./models/marts/core/schema.yml` and `./models/staging/schema.yml`.  Each column can have multiple tests configured under `tests` key. For example, we expect that `fct_orders.order_id` column will contain unique, non-null values. To validate that the data in the produced tables satisfies the test conditions run:
```
